---
title: "AI and procurement"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/MSOM20222
date: 2022-03-01
venue: 'Manufacturing & Service Operations Management'
citation: 'Ruomeng Cui, <b>Meng Li</b>, Shichen Zhang, &quot;AI and procurement.&quot; <i>Manufacturing & Service Operations Management</i>, 2022, forthcoming.'
---
<b>Abstract: </b><i>Problem definition:</i> In this research, we study how buyers’ use of artificial intelligence (AI) affects suppliers’ price quoting strategies. Specifically, we study the impact of automation—that is, the buyer uses a chatbot to automatically inquire about prices instead of asking in person—and the impact of smartness—that is, the buyer signals the use of a smart AI algorithm in selecting the supplier. <i>Academic/practical relevance:</i> In a world advancing toward AI, we explore how AI creates and delivers value in procurement. AI has two unique abilities: automation and smartness, which are associated with physical machines or software that enable us to operate more efficiently and effectively. <i>Methodology:</i> We collaborate with a trading company to run a field experiment on an online platform in which we compare suppliers’ wholesale price quotes across female, male, and chatbot buyer types under AI and no recommendation conditions. <i>Results:</i> We find that, when not equipped with a smart control, there is price discrimination against chatbot buyers who receive a higher wholesale price quote than human buyers. In fact, without smartness, automation alone receives the highest quoted wholesale price. However, signaling the use of a smart recommendation system can effectively reduce suppliers’ price quote for chatbot buyers. We also show that AI delivers the most value when buyers adopt automation and smartness simultaneously in procurement. <i>Managerial implications:</i> Our results imply that automation is not very valuable when implemented without smartness, which in turn suggests that building smartness is necessary before considering high levels of autonomy. Our study unlocks the optimal steps that buyers could adopt to develop AI in procurement processes.

[Download paper here](https://pubsonline.informs.org/doi/abs/10.1287/msom.2021.0989)
